## September 22, 2021

### Participants

|       Name         | Initials | Affiliation |
| ------------------ | -------- | ----------- |
| Jaime Rodriguez-G. |   JRG    |  Quansight  |
| Gonzalo Peña-C.    |   GPC    |  Quansight  |
| Justine Larsen     |   JL     |  CZI        |
| Laura Marcos       |   LM     |  CZI        |


### Summary

#### 1. Conda bundle folder (Jaime)

Instead of using an "(constructor or conda-pack based) installer inside a Briefcase installer", we can bundle a Conda environment directly within the bundle app. It seems to be working. More testing is needed on other platforms.

Current state of the POC can be found at [napari/napari#3378](https://github.com/napari/napari/pull/3378)

Artifacts to test for Mac and Linux can be found at:
https://github.com/napari/napari/actions/runs/1258330147#artifacts

#### 2. Plugins in user space (Jaime)

These would be handled  differently since they would live on user space not in the bundled app as they currently are.

Need to work on how to "mock" the base environment "that lives" in the bundle app, so that conda uses this information to keep coherence of the environment, which is the greatest benefit of using conda/mamba vs using pip.

The bundle app would create a conda environment in user spaces and we would mock the metadata (conda-meta) folder of the base environment (inside the bundle app) so that all plugins installed on the plugins environment would be constrained to the base dependencies inside the bundle. We will also functionally freeze the base environment by **pinning** the base versions in the user environment.


[PrefixData details](https://github.com/conda/conda/blob/e3efd1c47bed3be0b53abffdb49b76a7dc471d7f/conda/core/prefix_data.py#L67)

#### 3. Patch builds on CI or built computer (Jaime)

##### Macos

POC Works, relocatability included, in Jaime's laptop. Need to test in other machines (preferrably without conda environments already set up) to ensure it works for real.

##### Linux

POC Works. Needs testing locally to ensure UI loads.

##### Windows

Some issues on CI, related to Qt plugins and encodings. Need to investigate further but cannot reproduce locally right now. If it doesn't work, `constructor` is able to create .exe installers out of conda-packages too.


#### 4. Conda packages (Gonzalo)

Added two plugins to conda-forge for testing purposes: `waver` and `napari-animation`.

Plugin listing can be taken care of in Napari Hub. Need to add metadata fields for conda-package and incentivize the developer to add this piece of information.

### Next steps

1. (Jaime) Continue working on the bundles. Fix Windows bundle.
2. (Gonzalo) Continue migrating napari pip plugins to conda packages.

### Pending things on the queue

#### A. Automation

- Automate checks on CI to check things load.
- Nightly releases.

#### B. QA Checks

- Open the bundle, check it runs and load examples
- Move the bundle to a different place, check it runs. Check examples

#### C. Create a napari organization in Anaconda.org

- To be able to add nightly releases to this org under a "dev" label.

    **Who owns this user?** https://anaconda.org/napari
