# Meetings

## September 8, 2021

### Participants

|       Name         | Initials | Affiliation |
| ------------------ | -------- | ----------- |
| Jaime Rodriguez-G. |   JRG    |  Quansight  |
| Gonzalo Peña-C.    |   GPC    |  Quansight  |

### Summary

#### Known facts

- Napari bundles rely on Briefcase to build self-contained installers for Windows, Linux and MacOS. 

- Napari is extensible and offers a rich ecosystem users can install plugins from. Internally this is done by pip-installing them in the base napari environment / prefix.

#### Issues

- Pip packages are not guaranteed to be ABI compatible.

- Pip solver fails to guarantee a fully consistent environment even for the base installation. Adding plugins would only deteriorate this.

- Installing extra packages in the same location might get in the way of the signing process / deployment through OS Stores.

#### Proposal

- Switch to a conda-based setup where the Napari installation is, secretly, a conda environment that lives in userspace. This requires some work in [Briefcase itself](https://github.com/beeware/briefcase/issues/596).

- Plugins are installed to the same environment as Napari, but conda will guarantee that the ABIs involved are compatible.

- In case of conflicting dependencies, conda should error out and rollbacks successfully to a healthy state.
- Caveat: There’s a chance that some plugins cannot be installed together in the same environment due to explicit dependency incompatibilities (e.g. plugin A depends on library=2, but plugin B only uses its modern release library>3; this can get even trickier if those incompatibilities arise from 2nd order dependencies the plugin authors do not have control over).
    
    >Answer: In this case, I am afraid there are no ways around it. ABI incompatibility will cause issues if libraries end up in the same process. There’s a chance we can have an environment manager built in to choose which one to run at start, but that’s not user friendly or easy to implement. Multiple Napari installations are possibly more natural in that regard. This needs to be discussed, but it’s an issue that we can be already suffering from with PyPI packages (even silently).

    >Solution: deploy test pipelines to check that all plugins can be installed simultaneously
- Caveat: plugin authors need to package for Conda Forge. 
    >Answer: If they were doing it for PyPI, transitioning to CF should be very easy with the help of Grayskull.

- Caveat: submitting to Conda Forge requires a PR code review. 
    >Answer: Gonzalo and Jaime are both members of the reviewing team in Conda Forge.

- What about plugin conflicts?
    >Answer: This is actually a feature not a bug. We want to provide the best experience to ours end users.
- What about conda-forge pinnings?
    >No problems foreseen here
- Linux Bundles?
    > Better to build inside a docker image, and hopefully overlaps eventually with the conda forge images
- Create conda-packages for current plugins
    - Test with grayskull and conda-build / boa
    - 65 currently?

### New planned features

1. Add conda packaging support on Briefcase. [See issue](https://github.com/beeware/briefcase/issues/596).

    - This will probably involve shipping a Bundle with conda/mamba and the corresponding tarballs, which will be extracted to a given location on userspace (e.g. CONDA_ROOT=$HOME/.local/napari/vX.Y).

    - Note: MacOS security features force us to use the same executable to install to userspace _and_ launch the application. This means we probably need to ship Python in the bundle anyway. Can this Python be updated?

1. Adapt plugin system to install from conda; pip as fallback (but still installing to the same conda environment!).
    - Plugins will be installed to the same environment as the base Napari installation.
    - Alternatively, we can investigate whether [stacked activation](https://conda.io/projects/conda/en/latest/user-guide/tasks/manage-environments.html#nested-activation) can be set up correctly. This is [tricky to do right](https://github.com/conda/conda/issues/9597), though (not sure how dependency resolution is handled in this case).
    - Alternatively (bis), create environment copies and modify accordingly. This is like “hard stacking”; in other words, `conda create --clone`. It would be like having several Napari installations for the same version, in the end, so not sure what benefits we have here.

1. Auto update

    - Check the output of `mamba update --dry-run` and see if we need to apply updates or not.

1. Failed updates should just be detected by conda, but what if it crashes or the PC shutdowns mid-update. What are our options here? Shall we implement rollbacks like this? Upstream to conda?

### Distribution plans

- Sign installers. See [issue](https://github.com/napari/napari/issues/3341#issuecomment-913187092).
- App Store (requirements to be defined)
- Other application stores

### Other notes

Conda is a loaded term. Here I am using it very liberally, meaning both the tooling ecosystem, the package format and the actual package manager. Conda has been reimplemented with some core parts replaced (mamba), and also completely in C++ (micromamba). These are faster versions, but not as feature complete (yet?); things like pip-interoperability are not there yet, and those might come in handy. 


## Action points

- Create an issue for launcher proof of concept. See [Issue 3358](https://github.com/napari/napari/issues/3358)
- Automated conversion of plugin packages (PyPI -> Conda). See [Issue 3359](https://github.com/napari/napari/issues/3359)
- Long-term plans for pinned support package in Briefcase. See [Issue 3360](https://github.com/napari/napari/issues/3360)
