# Meetings

## September 15, 2021

### Participants

|       Name         | Initials | Affiliation |
| ------------------ | -------- | ----------- |
| Jaime Rodriguez-G. |   JRG    |  Quansight  |
| Gonzalo Peña-C.    |   GPC    |  Quansight  |
| Justine            |  |  |
| Nathan             |  |  |

### Summary


#### 1. New bundle strategies for Napari

The current bundling strategies for Napari rely heavily on Beeware's Briefcase. This tool is able to package a Python application along with its dependencies in a single file that can provide a relocatable installation in the target machines.

Each operating system is targeted with a native package format:

* Linux AppImage
* Windows Executable
* MacOS DMG 

> Besides these installers, Napari can also be installed via `pip` and `conda` in all operating systems, but this approach is not very user-friendly for non-developers.

#### 2. The situation in MacOS sets the bar for how we deploy a bundle

MacOS is the trickiest platform to target natively. The DMG image format allows the user to simply drag and drop a directory containing all the needed files to run Napari. Normally, it's dragged on `/Applications` (or user-space equivalent). Once dragged into a location, MacOS allows the user to move it as desired. 

In other words, these installations are _relocatable_.

Additionally, MacOS imposes several runtime restrictions that further complicate deployment in this platform:

* Once installed, an application should not alter its contents. Even if it technically possible, the `napari.app` folder should be considered read-only. As a result, the bundle contents should have everything needed to run.
* The main executable, `napari.app/Contents/MacOS/napari` needs to be the main binary running the application. In practice, it means that while subprocesses can be launched, the parent needs to stay alive through the whole lifecycle of the application. Briefcase allows this thanks to a binary wrapper around `python -m napari` (previous versions were bash scripts, but this doesn't cut it anymore).

If we also want to distribute through the App Store, the "each app is self-contained" philosophy is [even stricter](https://developer.apple.com/app-store/review/guidelines/):

* It needs to be [sandboxed](https://developer.apple.com/documentation/security/app_sandbox). Writing to userspace requires explicit permission systems.
* It cannot self update (needs to happen via Store).
* It cannot download or generate code not present in the bundle.
* It cannot extend its functionality through additional code not present in the bundle (ciao plugins? unclear). One interpretation of the rules is that this can happen as long as the _user_ initiates the action.

All in all, this is what we know. What can we do about it for Napari?

#### 3. Conda installations are not relocatable, BUT

This is a limitation. Due to how binary prefixes are patched, once installed, a conda package cannot be moved freely. It needs to be "cloned" (reinstalled from the tarball) to the target location.

Fortunately for us, there's a way to provide relocatable installations: through the installer itself. Anaconda provides a tool named `constructor` that can generate a fat shell script with all the tarballs and the extraction + installation logic. We can include the resulting installer in our bundle to provide all the dependencies. The only downside is that during the first execution we actually need to run the installer to set everything up.

#### 4. What we have tried

> See [PR](https://github.com/napari/napari/pull/3378) for the implementation described below.

Since the bundle cannot be altered after being built and `conda` installations are not relocatable, we thought we could add a "launcher" logic to the initialization routines in `napari.__main__`. Essentially, we have implemented this simple logic:

1. Detect if we are being run from the bundle executable. To make sure this can be checked, `bundle.py` now writes a sentinel file next to `napari.app/MacOS/napari`.
2. If that's the case, detect whether we have already installed our application to userspace. Default location is `~/.local/napari`.
3. If the default location is not populated, we run the installer to provide all Napari dependencies in that location and patch `sys.path`. 
    - We probably need to patch other environment variables after the environment activation, but surprisingly this was enough to get Napari running.


This works already! We can provide a conda-based bundle right now.

But it's not pretty. The initial installation using `constructor` takes ~5 minutes to complete and since everything is so barebones in the bundle itself (all dependencies are packaged in the installer, but they are not importable), we can't even tell the user we are doing some initialization tasks.

Using a `conda-pack` based deployment reduces the time to ~1m30s.

We would need to provide some kind of native dialog to show a progress bar or similar.

#### 5. This does not solve the App Store problem

Even if this is technically feasible with Briefcase, it's not doable through the App Store, given the review guidelines.

It would probably be rejected given the violation of:

* writing to userspace - we can technically ask for permission here and be ok but...
* we are still extending functionality through plugins

We are not sure to workaround plugin installation. There's a chance we can't provide that functionality directly in the UI, but only "accept" plugin installations through a `napari://` protocol kind of thing that gets triggered from the Hub webapp.

> Some comments on apps with plugins and the App Store (old) [here](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/5319982/mac-app-store-and-plugins)

#### 6. Other things we have tried

We want `conda` packages because it will end up providing a better plugin installation experience thanks to a consistent building environment in conda-forge (`manylinux` only gets so far) and a real SAT solver for the dependencies (trickier and trickier with ML frameworks like PyTorch or Tensorflow).

However, `conda` packages are not relocatable. What if we could actually make them relocatable through some conversion tools? We could bundle everything in the application and just install plugins to userspace (less of a violation for the App Store maybe?).

There are two tools that could have helped here (spoiler, I didn't succeed).

The first one is [PyOxidizer](https://pyoxidizer.readthedocs.io/en/stable/). A smart Rust-assisted compiler that will bundle a Python application in a binary file that can import packages from memory locations. However, it mainly supports installations from Pip packages, which means that everything is already relocatable from the beginning. This doesn't change our story and even if we wanted to use conda with it, it would probably involve heavy modifications upstream. Too much work for now.

The second one is named [Nuitka](https://nuitka.net/). This is a Python to C compiler that can end up bundling everything in relocatable libraries and binaries. While promising (it has mechanisms to auto follow the needed libraries, so as long as everything is installed locally it should work), I didn't get it to show a simple PyQt dialog saying "Hello World". It just hanged forever.


### Next steps

Some ideas:

* Instead of supporting relocation, _prevent_ relocation. This does not solve the "bundle contains an installer" problem.
* Audit our conda dependencies to see if we are lucky and our installation _happens_ to be relocatable. Maybe we only have the shebangs in text files and not binary prefixes.
    * Update: we are indeed lucky! We do need to add checks so this is still the case in the future. Conda packages can be audited through their `conda-meta/info.json` files, which detail if they have binary files with hardcoded prefixes.
* Hack conda internals to force relative prefixes to `napari.app` -- not even sure if this is possible.
* If DMGs are so tricky and the App Store is not a feasible goal, we can use `constructor` to build a PKG installer.
