# Bundle Working Group Meetings

## September 29, 2021

### Participants

|       Name         | Initials | Affiliation |
| ------------------ | -------- | ----------- |
| Jaime Rodriguez-G. |   JRG    |  Quansight  |
| Gonzalo Peña-C.    |   GPC    |  Quansight  |
| Justine Larsen     |   JL     |  CZI        |
| Laura Marcos       |   LM     |  CZI        |
| Nathan Clack       |   NC     |  CZI        |

### Summary

#### 1. Briefacase and conda/mamba

*Windows* - Bundle could be created successfully but running Napari would have required different path adjustments / hacks. Instead of crafting a fragile solution there (and relying on by-chance relocatability of the build installation), we decided to use `constructor` directly on this platform (see below for more details.)

*Linux* - AppImage bundles can be created but JRG was not able to test on a machine running Linux natively. They might need same path adjustments as required before, in which case we would also consider switching to `constructor` for this platform. In this case, it provides a `*.sh` fat-script that installs everything in a way that is native to `conda`.

*Macos* - Bundles can be created and installed successfully. JRG can open them successfully on his Macbook but other users have reported problems (unspecified details yet). Will investigate. If needed, `constructor` is able to provide PKG installers, which should provide the same kind of user-friendliness as DMGs. They might also be faster (DMGs are terribly slow to unpack for some reason).

#### 2. Constructor (conda/mamba)

*Windows* - An NSIS-backed installer is built with `constructor`.  It offers high customazibility too. For maximum user-friendliness, a shortcut icon on the Start menu should be provided. This is supported out of the box but the menu item needs to be added to the `conda` package that provides Napari through a wrapper package (see [issue](https://github.com/napari/napari/issues/3432)).

*Linux* - A `.sh` installer could (we haven't done it yet, but the code is there) be created (these are run with `bash installer.sh` and provides a CLI-based wizard). This is not the most user-friendly experience, but it should be good enough for Linux users anyway. Menu icons are not supported on this OS yet, but we should be able to add this to `constructor` and `menuinst`. This feature has been requested by several parties in the `conda` community too, so it would be well received if Napari were to "sponsor" this!

*Macos* - A `.pkg` installer could be created. We need to investigate how it behaves in terms of relocatibility / installation performance, but we could guess is not going to be worse than the DMG. The same `sh` installer available on Linux is possible here as well.

#### 3. Update mechanism (conda/mamba)

Working on the update mechanism for napari to be able to download packages as needed in the backgorund and prompt the user to install the new version once all packages are already downloaded, to provide a quick install process.

Also creating a separate environment for each napari version

### Next steps

- Make constructor assets for all platforms so we can add testing
- Evaluate a `napari-menu` package that handles creation of icons on different platforms
- Continue working on the update procedure for constructor based installs.
