## 2021/10/07

### Agenda

- Andy: revisit priorities, now with some related issues.
- Andy: questions around data/source/slicing/dims
    - What do we accept as data input currently?
        - Anything that implements the numpy array protocol?
        - Anything that can be passed into `np.array`?
        - How do we assert this? Through typing? Through testing?
    - Similarly, what do we assume about Layer.data?
    - What serialization do we care about now?
        - Is there any napari-specific state that has been previously be serialized that we have to worry about deserializing in the future?
        - Is this verified/tested in any way?
    - Do other array-like libraries (dask, etc.) offer numpy views over arrays?
- Eric: relying on some special slicing behavior of numpy array

### Action items

- Andy: create a discussion on github related to splitting data source and layer/view
    - Can we come up with a set of tests/requirements?
        - This is a big change, so we need to really careful about not breaking things.
    - Need to think about plugins interact with data.
    - Consider splitting image/labels vs. points/shapes/vectors/tracks
    - Need explicit definitions/nomenclature for layers, data source, view, etc.
- Andy/Nathan/Pam: start a design doc
    - Invite everyone to edit/collaborate
    - Need to define goals + user stories (needs/desires of users + developers)
        - Need to understand the current problems.
    - Need to understand the current state
- Grzegorz: next wednesday, will present on partseg utils as napari plugins
