## 2021/12/07

### Agenda

- [Andy]: pandas DataFrame PR open questions
    - pandas version requirements
        - try 1.0.0, increase as required
        - works in local environment, setup.cfg uses >=1.0.0 so CI is using a newer version
    - We probably have to publicly expose DataFrame initially.
        - Assuming we want to support in-place mutation initially (because DataFrame will copy non-numpy dtype data on to_numpy conversion).
    - Should we deprecate properties + choices immediately?
        - Or should we wait a version or two while we support both? 
        - Yes, but maybe not in the first PR? To keep it relatively small?
        - If yes, we'd have to update all our usage of properties/property_choices (which is not small, but again prob belongs in a separate PR).
    - How to handle `Layer._get_state`?
        - Can we just remove properties, or could that break plugins?
    - What to do with current properties?
        - See doc for some options: https://hackmd.io/emsLO3cUR3O9nxSc6YYwUA#CurrentDefault-values 
    - Future compatibility
        - See doc for some ideas: https://hackmd.io/emsLO3cUR3O9nxSc6YYwUA#CurrentDefault-values
        - How to annotate features property for now? Maybe ambiguous `Any` is fine, with more detailed docstring. 
- [Andy]: add some process around large proposals?
    - e.g. making the proposal doc a PR that is accepted/rejected then merged, with comments there
- [Andy]: attending an xarray community meeting tomorrow
    - to understand if xvariable would be a useful package for us, and how we can help
    - not sure it is going to be because its main motivation is to separate pandas dependencies
    - anyone else interested? any questions to ask?
