## 2021/09/30

### Agenda

- Grzegorz: Remove global ActionManager instance [3437](https://github.com/napari/napari/pull/3437)
    - PR looks good, but may need to think about passing ActionManager to everything. May need a longer term solution, but this short term solution may make sense.
    - Will likely by superseded by CommandManager.
    - Is there a need for different viewer instances to have different instances of CommandManager? Otherwise, there's a preference to make CommandManager a singleton/global.
- Andy: properties PR
    - Do we need to connect text blending changes separately to the text node?
        - Can we just handle it as part of the more coarse update?
        - This would reduce the number of connections significantly and make reconnection simple.
        - Alternatively we can chain `text.events.blending`  to `layer.events.blending`, as they trigger the same callback in the vispy layer. Could we do the same for text_update?
    - Should we make properties immutable? That helps clarify our intent, and also reduce some of the checks we need to do on it. Need a little code to implement a builder pattern, but most of that comes for free with Pydantic (through dict).
    - Benchmark PR.
        - Any other key usage to consider?
    - Should we consider an API more like `encoding.get_array(properties, indices) -> np.ndarray`?
        - This is ultimately the API we use internally (i.e. that our vispy/layer calls).
        - It also naturally supports an implementation with caching, and would not require us to update values as they are added.
        - Can we leave this as a potential future contribution? Should we hide the currently proposed API?


### Action items

- Talley: rough sketch of long term proposal. Also discuss with Grzegorz.
