## 2021/09/28

### Agenda

- Andy: review current state of https://github.com/napari/napari/pull/3327
    - Mutation of `Points.text`
        - Should we allow `points._text = TextManager(...)` after construction/first assignment?
        - Allowing it simplifies some error handling (e.g. if the RHS of the assignment raises an exception, then no state has changed, and we should still be in a good state). And also makes it easier to keep construction and assignment consistent (see https://github.com/napari/napari/issues/1833). But then we need to reconnect some events from the new instance. Or introduce a custom/dummy event.
        - Preventing it simplifies connections because we can do something like `text.events.visible.connect(self._on_text_changed)` without needing to reconnect a new instance of that event later. This is how `Points.text` behaves now.
    - Mutation of `Points.properties`
        - What happens when the new properties are incompatible with some other state (e.g. the number of points, `text`)? Should we error (while staying in the previous good state and not accepting the assignment), or warn and fall back to some safe state?
        - I think we should error, by validating the new value against all state in `Points` that depends on or is associated with it BEFORE assignment. 
        - But currently `ColorManager` warns and falls back.
    - Any other open comments/questions in PR.
- Nathan: async loading, oct-tree stuff, big data
    - Where to start?
        - Use current impl? Or something more general
    - Current oct-tree impl is specific to image layers.
