## 2021/08/26

### Agenda

- Layer data/slicing/clipping planes.
- Andy (if time): early/WIP code review: https://github.com/napari/napari/compare/master...andy-sweet:property-map-text?expand=1 

### Notes

- Clipping planes
    - Geometrical masks that can be easily shared between layers
    - E.g. clip a volume by a plane, then display an average plane across some of the slices parallel to it.
    - Could be defined at the scene level, and then layers could subscribe to it.
- Layer groups
    - Make it easier to subscribe a number of related layers to the same clipping plane
    - Other groups could be points/vectors to represent physical particles, and would also be clipped.
- Make the clipping plane a layer?
    - Kind of like a mask layer.
    - Maybe works better when it shares sampling information with another layer.
    - Also like Photoshop's adjustment layers?
- Can do a few different clips.
    - Can clip visualization only.
    - Could clip the data.
    - Axis-aligned clipping.
- Supporting n-dimensional (n > 3) can get tricky
    - Because we're unsure how to correspond dimensions in the visualization to dimensions in the data?
    - Clipping planes are currently defined in data coordinates (i.e. which works when they are aligned). World coordinates are used for 2+3D, and uses same logic as napari viewer. 
- Usage
    - We want to apply the clipping plane for visualization, but also to access data (e.g. to compute an average over those data).
- If using an adjustment layer, how does the rendering pipeline look?
    - E.g. an adjustment layer is a fully fledged layer that can be rendered. It takes care of how its children are clipped + rendered.
    - There is a composite node in vispy, which we could use. This was done in a current PR.

### Action items

- Generalized PR
    - WIP.
    - Clipping planes for volumes is already merged.
    - Ready for first-pass review.
    - One confusing thing: different vispy layers have seemingly different implementations. This may be early work that hasn't been changed in some time (and may be in need of refactoring)
    - Kevin, Alister, and maybe Nathan to review.
- Fuse Layer group PR and n-dimensional clipping PR?
    - Or at least coordinate those to get both in.
    - Probably longer term
- Discuss coordinate systems
    - Maybe next meeting.
