# napari documentation working group

Zoom meeting: https://czi.zoom.us/j/96831524360 (even if it says that it's the one for september 15th.)

## 2021-09-22

### Last week's action items

- [x] Ask Juan to advertise the documentation working group to the European crowd at the next Australia/Europe napari meeting (Gen)
- [x] For all the user stories, make notes on what the "solution" is. Are there any gaps we need to fix? (Chi-Li) Link to user stories doc: https://hackmd.io/eQmZcF1pQauBYtB5xf8QZw

### Agenda

- preview and update on the new theme
    - Here is the staging website https://napari.staging.imaging.cziscience.com/
- content bug bash
    - Decided: we'll do typo checks on pages that are unlikely to change (Melissa will share this list)
    - Decided: we'll postpone typo checks on pages that are very likely to be changed in the near future
    - Decided: we'll implement a link checker https://github.com/napari/napari.github.io/issues/173
- organization
    - Link to discussion issue: https://github.com/napari/napari/issues/3390 
    - Do we need a page explaining how users could install python/conda & use a jupyter notebook
    - Some of this tension between GUI first vs python first napari is due to the difficulty in installation (eg: bundle instalation works for GUI first napari, but it's hard to switch to python first. Python/conda installation is hard for non-python users to get set up with.)
    - Melissa suggests a video of installing napari with python from scratch (python/conda/napari to napari launch & cells image drag & drop). Matthias makes the point that we'd need one video for Mac, one for Windows (linux users can take care of themselves).
    - Another steep learning curve, people who are new to image analysis as well.
        - Example: seeing "connected components" in the docs. If you know what connected components
        - Example: "labels" has a specific meaning, but isn't defined well in the napari docs. People use this word colloquially to mean different things.
        - It would be good to have a list of all these places
        - Perhaps we could link out to good resources for learning image analysis

### Next week's action items

- [ ] Submit PR with [draft of reorganization](https://github.com/napari/napari/issues/3390) [name=Melissa]
- [ ] Create issue to review documents we don't plan on refactoring and find typos and broken links [name=Melissa]
- [ ] early next week, post invite to general zulip stream (Justin)
- [ ] Pull request template, add checkbox for documentation (Draga)
- [ ] Make issue - we need a page explaining how users could install python/conda & use a jupyter notebook (Geb)
- [ ] Make issue - we need a page explaining how users can contribute tutorials with jupytext (Gen)
- [ ] Raise issue - do we want a napari youtube channel (Gen)

------

At the end of the meeting:
- Copy the contents of this document to a new file in https://github.com/napari/meeting-notes
- Clear out the Agenda from last meeting
