# napari documentation working group

2021-09-09

## Agenda

### What is this working group going to do, anyway?
- The napari documentation working group's mission is to ensure that all napari users have a place to easily find the information necessary to meet their goals with napari. We want to ensure that the napari community has the infrastructure needed to contribute reproducible documentation.
- Highest priority: Data content & data organisation or napari.org
- Users must have a clear path through the documentation (currently lacking)
- Easy for people to contribute to and keep updated

### What kind of a meeting schedule are we going to have?
- Weekly, at least to start. Same time as kickoff meeting (9am Thursdays AEST)

### How are we going to keep track of things?
- GitHub project on napari.org
- meeting notes go in the napari/meeting-notes repo: https://github.com/napari/meeting-notes/tree/main/2021/working-groups/documentation
- communication on the zulip documentation working group stream

### Motivations & Priorities
Shared motivations:
- Improve discoverability
- Wear the hat of the end user and learn how to use napari
- Improvements to organization & "key first flow"
- Goals of user on site... what is their mission?

Gen
- tutorials
- automated infrastructure for tutorials

Draga
- Organisation of the docs
- As easy as possible for outside developers to contribute docmentation

Chi-Li
- new users's perspective
- how to learn how to use napari

Melissa
- organisation
- lots of scattered documentation/tutorials/examples that are undiscoverable
- 1st priority: what do I need to know first for a new user to learn napari

Justin
- documentation lets users kick the tires of napari, and figure out if napari is felevant/useful to them


We have both infrastructure and content priorities.

Infrastructure: Automated doc building (for automated screenshots, automated tutorial checks, etc.)
Infrastructure: Demo data storage & retrieval
Infrastructure: Automated gif/animations
Content: organisation of docs (Melissa can report on her initial impressions)
    - [Initial draft here](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1oNXHvVZuUb2G1P8A6ipVqtYX2XoTJZUxFlmFkIvox4c/edit?usp=sharing)
Content: new content (ideally new, non-CZI people can contribute)

- Question: Is documentation only in the website? Or in the viewer as well?
    - Risk of fracturing documentation
    - One approach: linking out to relevant references from the viewer
    - May be especially relevant to plugins (Talley's been doing some recent work in this space)

Organisation: Here's a [diagram of the napari documentation](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/29165011/107590279-9c958380-6bbc-11eb-90d8-9bc82f31a23e.png)

Helpful: user stories as a framework

Draga says: We should have a guide or some standards for contributing documentation. Be more pescriptive about if there is a PR, there must be documentation attached, etc.


### TODO for next time
- [ ] Set up meeting invite & put on the napari calendar & advertise it on the zulip (Justin)
- [ ] Check in with Alister & any other euro folks (Gen)
- [ ] (Documentation for the documenters) Ask about how the napari/docs are rendered (Melissa will ask Kira or Jeremy)
- [ ] Set up Github project on napari.org (Gen)
- [ ] Start thinking about what the docs deployment pipeline looks like (Justin)
- [ ] Start thinking about user stories for napari (Chi-Li, Draga, everyone)
- [ ] Contributor documentation standards draft (Draga)
- [ ] Pull request template, add checkbox for documentation (Draga)

