Meeting Minute 2021-09-21
===

###### tags: `working-group` `plugin`

:::info
- **Date:** 2021-09-21
- **Agenda**
    - [last week]( https://hackmd.io/8Poz_ZneQCiTs9qTZ-OLqw)
    - menus
    - npe2/napari-svg update
- **Participants:**
    - Nathan Clack, Matthias Bussonier, Talley Lambert
:::

- Menus: what are the "official" menus that we offer
    - Sample menu: Just need to expose a sample.
    - VS code does not that. 
        - Here is a command that would create a sample, and put it in a sample menu.
        - Nathan like napari to have control aver most of the things.
- python_name: use ``:`` to separate module(s) from attribute. 

- Command name
    "my_plugin.another_command"
    Should we keep the my_plugin
    - (Matthias) 
        prefer being explicit
        should lint

- discussion about menus: should the contents of a submenu go *in* the declaration of the submenu (i.e. in the `submenus` section below the ID)... or stay as it is where submenus get *declared* in the `submenus` section, but *populated* in the `menus` section.

Do we want plugins to add items to another plugin's menus?
    - Especially around context menus.
    - requires namespaced menu names

- official napari menus will be prefixed with `napari_`
- should/could plugins be able to populate other plugins menus?  (we think it would be cool... it would allow third parties to create their own "platforms" for others to populate.)  Figure out *how* vscode 
- Proposal:
    - use `/` when referring to some absolute global path.
      `/napari/layer_context`
    - `un-slashed-name` is assumed to be prefixed by plugin
    - to add to some other plugins menu, you'd do something like this
    `/scikit-image/do-machine-learning`







Plugin name
    - use pypi package name to guarantee uniqueness, normalize to python identifier. 


Writers
- probably need a more involved save dialog


<!-- Discussion goes here-->

## Next steps
<!-- Action items go here -->

## Notes 
<!-- Other important details discussed during the meeting can be entered here. -->

- [ ] After the meeting add the minutes to the 'working-group/plugins' folder of [napari/meeting-notes](https://github.com/napari/meeting-notes).

## Links

* [Calendar](https://calendar.google.com/calendar/u/0?cid=Y18zNXI5M2VjNnZ0cDhzbWhtN2R2NXVvdDB2NEBncm91cC5jYWxlbmRhci5nb29nbGUuY29t)
* [HackMD space](https://hackmd.io/team/napari-wg-plugin)
* [Recorded meeting notes](https://github.com/napari/meeting-notes/tree/master/2021/working-groups/plugins)