Meeting Minute 2021-12-01
===

###### tags: `working-group` `plugin`

:::info
- **Date:** 2021-12-01
- **Agenda**
    - [last meeting](https://hackmd.io/AL6MRg5PRQ-Kvyz8ZVnQNw)
    - package metadata in manifest
        - name, version, license, description
    - experimental_provide_function
        - npe2 convert translates to a command
        - npe1 behavior is a menu item that invokes a magicgui
        - I think the idea is we translate these to a widget, but
          Nathan's not sure how to do this
    - cookiecutter
        - new repo? branch?
    - install/uninstall plugins ([#36](https://github.com/napari/npe2/issues/36))
        - Matthias: I think it's fine to have the behavior of uninstalling/updating plugins after napari is opened to be undefined behavior. 
        - If we can detect that somethign have changed and tell users they should restart napari for changes to be taken into account. 
 
    - [Nathan]Kevin and Alister mentioned blender-like interaction at the 11/24 euro community meeting. There was discussion of how to add that kind of thing as a plugin. Want the function to patch into napari, but activating it via the plugin menu seems awkward. Need to activate at start up.
        - We are not sure what this is about. Is it about integration with blender whcih might be complicated as blender ship it's own python ? Or about the blender-like node editor that allow to do visial programming. 
        - [Nathan] had to leave early. Will move this item to next week's agenda and clarify.


- **Participants:**
    - Nathan Clack
    - Matthias Bussonnier
    - Talley Lambert
    - Baiyang Dai
    - Pam Wadhwa
:::

<!-- Discussion goes here-->
experimental_provide_function
- migration: suggest decorate w magicgui yourself

package metadata in manifest
- forward distribution object from distutils
    - optional property on manifest
    - for plugins that come in without a package
        - dynamic plugin

install dialog
    - install/uninstall in current PR
        - short term, warn or popup and say please restart
        - evented pluginmanager wrapper 
    - enable/disable goes in another PR
    

## Next steps
<!-- Action items go here -->

- [ ] tutorial: dynamic plugin
    - runs w/o discover. keep pattern of invoking from command line
- [ ] package data as optional manifest field

## Notes 
<!-- Other important details discussed during the meeting can be entered here. -->

- [ ] After the meeting add the minutes to the 'working-group/plugins' folder of [napari/meeting-notes](https://github.com/napari/meeting-notes).

## Links

* [Calendar](https://calendar.google.com/calendar/u/0?cid=Y18zNXI5M2VjNnZ0cDhzbWhtN2R2NXVvdDB2NEBncm91cC5jYWxlbmRhci5nb29nbGUuY29t)
* [HackMD space](https://hackmd.io/team/napari-wg-plugin)
* [Recorded meeting notes](https://github.com/napari/meeting-notes/tree/master/2021/working-groups/plugins)